Cloudstamp Readme
-----------------

Cloudstamp is a simple system for creating RHEL-like system images for cloud
systems. The main goal of the project is simplicity for easy maintenance.

Images are created by the following steps:
 - Create an empty QCOW2 disk image
 - Install a plain base system using kickstart (inside qemu)
 - In the kickstart post, apply a puppet catalogue
 - Compress the disk image

The magic all happens in the puppet step. This is where a plain image gets its
personality for whatever its intended use is. The base image could even be
cached but we don't implement that as it's then too complicated to launch
puppet inside it in an automated & reproducible manner.

The qemu step is done entirely with userspace components, this means that unlike
other tools, Cloudstamp can run without any elevated privileges on the host
system.

The requirements on the host system are minimal:
 - qemu (ideally qemu-kvm but qemu-system-x86_64 works too)
 - qemu-tools (specifically qemu-img)
 - bash
 - A network connection (for downloading packages)

Smoke and mirrors need not apply; everything is driven from a simple bash script
that runs the commands sequentially and bails out if an error occurs at any step.

If this is the first time your using Cloudstamp, you probably want to just get
started without worrying about finding installer kernels and things, run the
bootstrap.sh script to download some to get started with.

Without further a-do, some examples on creating images:

A CentOS6.4, glideinWMS image:
 ./cloudstamp.sh centos64 glideinwms

A vanilla CentOS5.10 image:
 ./cloudstamp.sh centos510 base

That's it! Running any of these commands should (eventually, ~5-15 minutes)
leave you with an image in the output directory. You can then upload this to
your OpenStack cloud with glance or do whatever with it.

Things to note:
 - This tool was primarily developed for building RHEL6 glideinWMS images,
   other configurations aren't as well tested.
 - The entire config tree is copied into /root on the target system via the
   initrd. Don't put secrets or anything "too large" in here!
 - The cloudboot.sh script can be used to boot an image for inspection, you
   should go into single user mode via grub or things like SSH keys may get
   permanently written into the image.

If you have any comments, bugs or improvements mail them to sf105@ic.ac.uk
including "[Cloudstamp]" at the beginning of the subject.

